# Behavioral model targets

The targets below are not listed in alphabetical order, but _roughly_
by the order of recommendation of their use, from most recommended to
least.


## `simple_switch`

This target is a software switch, running on a general purpose CPU
such as Intel/AMD/etc., that can execute most P4_14 and P4_16
programs, with only a few restrictions on the features used by those
P4 programs.

It implements the P4 features listed below.  They correspond to the
P4_14 language specification, and also with P4_16 plus the `v1model`
architecture, which is intended to match the architecture defined in
the P4_14 language specification:

+ counters
+ meters
+ registers
+ action profiles
+ action selectors
+ several hash and checksum functions
+ pseudo-random number generation
+ digest messages generated by the data plane, sent to the control plane
+ A switch architecture with ingress parser, ingress control, packet
  buffer with packet replication engine, egress control, and egress
  deparser.
  + multicast replication
  + cloning/mirroring of packets
  + resubmit packets, from end of ingress back to start of ingress
  + recirculate packets, from end of egress back to start of ingress

This target can accept TCP connections from a controller, where the
format of control messages on this connection is defined by a Thrift
API.  The P4 program loaded into this target can change while it is
running, and the target executable need not be recompiled in order to
use the new control plane messages for that new P4 program, i.e. the
control plane API is program independent (PI).

References:

+ [Specification documents](https://p4.org/specs/) for P4_14 and P4_16
  languages.
+ The include file [`v1model.p4`](https://github.com/p4lang/p4c/blob/main/p4include/v1model.p4)
  defining the `v1model` architecture for P4_16 programs, and the
  [`simple_switch` documentation](../docs/simple_switch.md) giving
  more details of this architecture and its implementation in
  `simple_switch`.
+ [Instructions](../README.md#using-the-cli-to-populate-tables) for
  running a Python program as a controller, and connecting to
  `simple_switch`.


## `simple_switch_ra`

This target is based on the `simple_switch` target described above.
